Data are raw facts

Information is the result of processing data to reveal its meaning

Knowledge is the discovery of new patterns and relationships in data that allow actions to be taken
Accurate, relevant, timely information is the key to good decision making

Data usually stored in a database

DBMS implements a database and manages its contents

Metadata is data about data

Database design defines the database structure

Databases evolved from manual and computerized file systems

In a file system, data stored in independent files

Each requires its own management program

File based systems suffer from numerous problems which are largely overcome by Database systems

Database management systems developed to address manual file system’s inherent weaknesses

DBMS present database to end user as a single repository

Promotes data sharing

Eliminates islands of information

DBMS enforces data integrity, eliminates redundancy, promotes security

Modelling is …   	the act of drawing one or more graphical representations 
			of a system.  The resulting picture represents the user’s
			 processes, data, or user-interface requirements from a business
			viewpoint. A model is an abstract representation (i.e. not the real 		thing) of a system.

Business process…
			business activities that have inputs and outputs, 
			as well as starting and stopping times.  Business processes
	 		transform inputs (i.e. data) into outputs (i.e. information).  Business
			processes may be implemented by any combination of
	 		people, machines, or computers. Whitireia’s enrolment procedure is 		an example of a business process.

Business functions …
			ongoing activities that support the business, and can be
			decomposed into other functions and eventually into
			processes that perform specific tasks.

ORACLE (a major provider of DBMS) describes a business process as:

	an activity, or collection of activities, in which a business engages in order to create or add some kind of value for its customers.

Everything a business does can be seen in terms of business processes, from ordering stationery to releasing a major new product line.

Why model business processes ?
As analysts observe a business in action they systematically:

discover how the business interacts with the outside world, e.g.: with
	customers, suppliers, financial and regulatory agencies.

identify business processes

record process inputs (data) and outputs (data/information).

define what happens within each process (e.g. how data is processed).

identify what data is recorded.

Symbols used in Visio modeller
Triggers
	An event which starts a chain of
	one or more process steps.

Process Step
	A clearly identifiable task within
	 a process.

Data Store
	Storage of data required/generated by a 
	process step
Flow
	Indicates the sequence of steps or a flow of 
      materials, documents or data between process 
	steps and/or data stores

Outcomes
	An event that results from a process.
Decision
      Indicates  the point in a process where one of
      two alternative pathways can be taken depending
      on the outcome of the decision.

Basic rules for business process models
Processes
have both inputs and outputs.
inputs must be sufficient to generate the outputs.
Data Stores
have both inputs and outputs.
Flows
need to indicate the correct sequence of process steps. They can also document details of what data flows between data stores and process steps.

Triggers & Outcomes
can apply only to process steps.
invoked by external event, time (e.g. end of each week) or another system.

A data model is an abstraction of a complex real-world data environment
Basic data modeling components:
Entities
Attributes
Relationships
Business rules identify and define basic modeling components

Relational model
Current database implementation standard
ER model is a tool for data modeling
Complements relational model
Tables are basic building blocks of a relational database
Primary Keys are central to the use of relational tables

Each table row must have a primary key that uniquely identifies all attributes in that row 
Tables linked by common attributes
Good design begins by identifying entities, attributes, and relationships
1:1, 1:M, M:N

Tables are basic building blocks of a relational database
Keys are central to the use of relational tables
Primary key
Foreign key
Each table row must have a primary key that uniquely identifies all attributes 
Tables linked by common attributes (using foreign keys)
Good design begins by identifying entities, attributes, and relationships
1:1, 1:M, M:N




